DOC: Add disambiguation article (#107)
cerfacs-globc/icclim: doc/source/explanation/xclim_and_icclim.rst

.. _clix-meta: https://github.com/clix-meta/clix-meta
.. _xclim: https://github.com/Ouranosinc/xclim

Disambiguation on xclim and icclim
==================================

> On a first glance it seems `xclim`_ and icclim serve the same purpose but the difference is in the details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At first glance it seems `xclim`_ and icclim serve the same purpose but the difference is in the details.
```

> With version 5 of icclim, xclim became a building block of icclim. xclim handles some the core features, notably

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With version 5 of icclim, xclim became a building block of icclim. xclim handles some of the core features, notably
```

> the calculation climate indices. Beside, we also make use of xclim capabilities to handle i/o units and to check

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the calculation of climate indices. Beside, we also make use of xclim capabilities to handle i/o units and to check
```

input data and metadata validity.

This relationship between the two libraries means they can benefit from one another.

> While developing icclim v5, we decided to integrate as much as possible relevant features in xclim directly, instead of

Reviewer: syntax unclear

> keeping them on our code base. This is for example the case for the bootstrapping of percentile which was a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
keeping them on our code base. This is for example the case for the bootstrapping of percentiles, which was a
```

collaborative work from both parties.

> This way, xclim gains new features and users through us and we can rely on all the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This way, xclim gains new features and users, and we can rely on all the
```

work they have already accomplished. Plus, we benefit from their knowledge thanks to code reviews and discussions on
their repository.

This joint effort helped tremendously to create what icclim is today and we believe it strengthens the collaborative
ecosystem of geo sciences.

--------

On the other side, we had to clarify what would be the purpose of icclim without its internal climate index computation
feature.

> Thus, icclim is now a library which wraps index calculation in a familiar API while **pre-processing** inputs and dress

Reviewer: dress ?

output with **metadata**.

Pre-processing includes:

- Handling of multiple input formats (netcdf files, xarray.Dataset, text file (TBD)).

> - Simple automated data chunking, then fed to Dask.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Simple automated data chunking
```

- Variable detection in input based on the work done in `clix-meta`_.
- Wet day filtering for precipitation indices.
- Simple unit handling (rely on xclim pint registry).
- Time sub-setting of data.

Output metadata includes:

- History
- Title
- Units
- time_bounds
- provenance (TBD)

Beside, icclim still provides a way to write **user defined indices** using a simili JSON data structure
(actually a python dictionary) with ``icclim.index(user_index=...)``.
The metadata is however not as rich as with ECA&D indices.

One of the goal of icclim is also to provide an API which require zero knowledge of xarray letting user new to python
and its ecosystem reliably compute climate indices.
This is one of the reason why icclim exposes a single entry point for all it's features with ``icclim.index``.
It means users new to xarray might prefer icclim while experts could find xclim more convenient.

> xclim scope is larger than the one of icclim. xclim add metadata to the computed index in multiple languages (currently

Reviewer: ```suggestion
xclim' scope is larger than the one of icclim. xclim add metadata to the computed index in multiple languages (currently
```
